Hey, guys, what's up?
This is American, and I welcome you to an editorial on this course on Ruby.
And in this story, we are going to be covering two more functions.
You are going to see the index and we are going to see the R index.
So starting on with the first one that is index index is a string class method in Ruby, which is used
to act on the index of the first occurrence of the given substring or pattern in the given string.
It specifies the position in the string to begin the search.
If the second parameter is present, it will return nil.
If nothing is found, then if you talk about this index of this function, then it is right.
Or here it is string dot index and it accepts parameter.
That is the string in the given string.
So it is basically a part of the string which you have specified.
Right.
Well you have to choose certain characters from it.
Then comes the second function we are going to be covering in this tutorial is going to be the R index
function and it returns the index of the last occurrence of the given substring character or pattern
in the given string.
And it also returns null if nothing is found out of the second parameter is present.
It specifies the position in the string to and the search character is beyond this point that will not
be considered.
So if you talk about the syntax of this second function, it is right on your screens.
It is string, dot are index.
And then again, the parameter which you can see is a character that is a part or you can say some selected
characters.
From whatever strength is present right over here.
So let's do some very simple and quick examples of both these functions and see how they can be applied
on some strings so long to Atem.
So starting off with the first function, that was the index functions for that, what we need is first
a string.
So we will initialize a string and storage in a variable.
Let's say our string is some kind of word.
All right.
So we have this string now over here.
Now, what we want to check in is we are going to write in votes.
You're going to write an e dot index and we are going to choose is that we are going to choose a character
which is going to be specified right over here, and that character is going to be a part of something
from here.
So let's say I want to know the position of this all, which is right on a hill.
Run the score and you can see that I have got one, because the position starts on from zero, this
is the zero position, then this is the first position.
This is the second position.
This is the third position.
This is the fourth position.
For example, if I just specify, let's say, Dujayl or underscored and you can see that you've got
four over here.
That is zero.
One, two, three, four.
So basically, as I told you, that this index function is going to on the first occurrence of the given
substring our pattern in the string.
So this is the string and this is basically the character.
And we want to see that where this character has occurred in the string.
We want to know the index or you can say the position of this character in the string that is eight
and we have got this world over here.
So it is going to retain the position at which this is store.
Now, for example, Youlus just type in something that is not a part of this string.
You're underscored and you can see that it has returned nothing a space.
So this means that this character is not a part of this string right over here, which you have specified.
So now moving towards the second part of this tutorial that deals with another function, that is the
R index function, and as you know that the difference between an index and our index is that index
returns the first occurrence of the given substring and the R index returns the index of the last occurrence
of the given substring.
So let's say we have the very same word.
You just specify our index over here.
You're going to specify, let's say, w Oakhill.
Around this gold.
Oops, we got nothing.
And the reason behind this is that this O'Haire is also case sensitive since this is in capital.
So you have to write in capitals.
We'll hear more on this.
Good.
And it has returned zero, which is the index.
Now, for example, if we have one more WOFL.
That is basically the fifth position, so I now run this code, it is going to return five, as I told
you, that our index returns the index of the last occurrence of the given substring.
So in our case, w it is going to search throughout this string for O.W. And it is going to give me
the index of where this has occurred the very last time.
So if I use the index functional here on the score, it is going to give me the first occurrence.
That is zero right over here.
And if I use our index, you have already seen that it has returned me five.
And this is what is basically the difference between the two function index and our index.
So I hope you are clear about both these functions and the difference between these two.
So I guess that's it with this tutorial.
Thank you so much, guys, for watching.
And I'll see you guys in the next trattoria.